LOG

Okay. I know what you're thinking. And yes, I realize I'm more than half way
through. I'm changing again. This time I'm using Love (in LUA).
And here's why:
- I couldn't get pathfinding (a key element to the game's playability) working in Unity.
- Love is faster for prototyping
- It's easier for me to make 2D assets
- Unity keeps freezing
So yeah. Switching to Love. I've already made a really simple Pong Game and I
did that in an hour so imagine what I can do in three months.


Well I officially suck at programming. Somehow the dungeon generation
algorithm that I made gets completely different results in LUA. Probably because
of different seeds. I'm working on getting a good map layout. More updates soon.

So I fixed the map generation problems and got a "camera" working. It actually
just translates and scales the whole render canvas but I'm pretty sure that's
actually quite common with 2D games. (not that I have any evidence of that).

My desire to have the camera zoom into the cursor is being... troublesome. I'm
gonna have to take a step back and think about the math, because so far it just
goes crazy every time I zoom in. That is... irritating.

Well I fixed the camera. I changed the algorithm to apply the proper offset to
the scene based on 'zoom' levels. Turns out I wasn't accounting for the canvas
scaling when applying the offsets.

I've finally gotten round to actually creating the 'player'. It's just a square
on the screen that I can click on to select and right click to move but at least
it's something. I'm gonna start working on the dreaded pathfinding now. Yikes.

Day #2 of pathfinding aside from the plethora of crashes and errors it works.
Sort of. I'll keep this short cause there's no progress but basically:
- I can make it calculate a path from one coordinate to another based on the map
- It takes a s*** load of time because I haven't actually used A* yet
- By a lot of time I mean like a quarter second but that's still substantial
- It keeps on doing stupid things and not working

Day #5 of pathfinding and it's finally done doing A*. I had to start again cause
I did something wrong. It appears that it all works (sort of), except for every
now and then it just stops pathfinding. I'll get round to that later.

So enemies are a thing now. They search for the nearest player and make a path to
it and go a certain distance along that path. There's a big frame drop every time
they do though. That sucks.

Okay I fixed the frame drop while simultaneously predicting some balancing issues
and now only enemies within a certain distance will come closer. Frame drop is
less prominent now.

The heroes can now attack enemies, which is always a good addition to a game about
attacking enemies. It basically checks if the enemy is next to the player using
a fancy math that I made up (instead of if statements) and then it decreases the
enemy's health.

Okay enemies attack now and suddenly I have a 'game'. The game sucks. It really
really sucks. I'm starting to regret making this game cause it's no fun. I look
around at everyone around me making progress and their games look great but mine
is barely fun, or even functional.

I took a little break of procrastination but I'm back. I'm starting to think
about aesthetics and I've changed the rendering from rectangles to images. The
players and enemies are now hexagonal (just for testing)

Items. Items everywhere. I got items working and randomly spawning (oh, and the
enemies randomly spawn now too.) Basically if you move onto an item it'll pick
it up and add it to a list.

I've decided to try my hand at lighting. Let's see how that goes.

Lighting works. Slow as hell but it works. I'm gonna have to optimize it a bit
but that's okay. I basically get the distance from all the heroes and get the
inverse square of it to find the 'luminance' of that specific tile. (inverse
square is the proper function to calculate light intensity [it's a physics thing])

I optimized the lighting a bit and it's running a fair bit smoother. Still bad on
some of the school computers but it's very much playable.

I've found a VERY useful sight called 'game-icons.net'. All of the assets there
are perfect for the game I want to make. I've downloaded a bunch of them and put
them into the game and now it actually seems like a game. It's sort of fun-ish
now... ish.

I decided I don't like the flat grey rectangles of the walls so I'm working at
replacing them with textures. I'm going to use 'bitmasking' to use a different
texture depending on the surrounding objects. I'm half way though that code now.

So I finished the bitmasking code and made a really basic wall tile sheet. It
actually didn't turn out that bad (after the third or fourth attempt.)

I now have some semblance of a proper UI. There's an icon of hearts in the top
left which starts red and wipes to grey as health decreases, as well as some icons
of hourglasses which represent the amount of actions the selected hero has left.

I just finished adding status effects. I've been sitting in my room all night just
coding away. Now spiders can poison you and forification shows up in the top right
(as well as poisoning). I also added health rings to enemies and health bars to players.
I also added selection cycling, as in, when the user presses a button the game
selects the next hero in the list (and loops at the end.)

I FINALLY fixed the bug where pathfinding just randomly stops working. Ms Hadley
decided to sit down for like half an hour and just try and figure out when it is
happening. She told me what she could figure out and it WORKS. No more pathfinding
bugs. I am finally rid of the plague that is A*.

Due to popular demand I've moved the inventory over to the right as opposed to
smack bang in the middle of the screen. I also decided to add equipables instead
of having chests full of just potatoes and treasure. Now the player can equip
a weapon or defense and it'll show up with a little icon above the inventory list.
The icon is from game-icons.net

After some consideration I decided to spend the afternoon migrating from a list
based inventory to a grid based inventory. It worked pretty alright, although
there were a few hiccoughs with figuring out where to render the items and also
where the aforementioned rendered items where relative to the mouse (i.e. the
mouse wasn't clicking) but it worked out well in the end. I set all the items to
a picture of a candle because game-icons.net is blocked at school but when I get
home I'm gonna set them all to the right things.

Unfortunately the potato had to go. I know, it's really sad. I couldn't find an
appropriate icon from game-icons.net or anywhere else that fit the style so I've
changed the 'generic food' found in the neath to an eggplant. Why an eggplant
you ask? Because it was the most random food I could find at game-icons.net, that's
why. That's not a good enough reason you say? Well I say I don't care. Deal with it.

I've added a status icon which overlays the hero icon, so that status effects
can be seen in non-selected characters. I also changed the default hero icon to
a helmet instead of a person and added three new heroes.

It took a while (dunno why) but I've finally coded in world object, as in
interactable items in the world that take up space. What I've got so far is cages
and doors, which need keys to open. The cages when opened spawn a new hero for the
player to play as simultaneously.

I've coded in some semblance of a menu system. I had the foundation since the
beginning but I kept forgetting to actually finish it. I also tweaked the health
bars to be more visible, due to user request. Also Status effects now Have
tooltips.

I've added more potions, specifically the penetrating sight and night vision
potions. The first of which required me to fix a bug in which tooltips would not
be displayed on world objects if a hero was selected. Well I fixed the bug and
made it so the aforementioned tooltips only show up on chests and only when the
hero has 'penetrating sight'. Night vision isn't actually working but the loot
entity works.

I added a world object that 'takes the hero to the next level'. I'm going to be
completely honest and tell you that it doesn't take the hero anywhere. It just
says "if there where a next level, this would be how you'd get there" and then the
ladder disappears. So...yeah.

I've been working on the menus and they're still shizen so not much to say. I'll
get back to ya when they're better.

Two days left till it's due and I still haven't done any testing. Also, the menus
are not done. oops.
